Since mind reading and manipulation relies on electromagnetism, then countering
it would require a mechanism for blocking electromagnetism.

This page enumerates a few possible mechanisms that I've come across, but I have
not done much experimenting in this regard myself, nor do I have the means to,
so expert opinion on the subject is very much appreciated.

There are a few important concerns to take in mind when developing a solution,
which will be went over in this page. Thorough experiments need to be made
before determining whether a solution is really all that effective.


Faraday Cage
============

`See Wikipedia article for full introduction of the concept
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Faraday_cage>`_.

tl;dr Metals prevent electromagnetism from passing, so surrounding your brain
with metallic walls would shelter it from mind reading/manipulation technologies.

There might be various ways to achieve that.


"Faraday Helmet"
----------------

I have thought about making a "Faraday helmet", which as the name suggests a
person would wear on their head. But the problem is that the helmet would still
have large openings, typically from the front (for vision and breathing) and
bottom (for the neck). Those same openings serve as (pretty large) windows for
electromagnetism, and unfortunately can render the whole helmet useless.

The front of the helmet might be made from a translucent material that blocks
electromagnetism, such as EMF-shielding plastic or EMF-shielding glass.

But even with the front covered, the open bottom of the helmet is still a problem.

I have made a basic experiment by wrapping my entire head in many (20+) layers
of aluminum foil. I found the "microwave hearing" initially disappeared. Then
about half a minute later, it started coming back, though more faint in
comparison to before.

Because of this, I think that the technology that the regime uses is capable
of adapting to the presence of barriers, perhaps by bouncing the
electromagnetic waves on the floor (or a nearby surface), so it would still
enter your brain from below even if it's covered from all other directions.

Although bouncing alters the shape of the signal, neural networks can be
trained to reconstruct and readapt the signal from various bouncing patterns.
At the very least, the basic scenario of bouncing onto one or more flat surfaces
like the floor, ceiling or walls should be trivial to overcome, because the
transformation of the signal is calculable with simple math, even before we
speak of what neural networks can do.


"Faraday Room"
--------------

Another idea would be making a "Faraday room", which as the name suggests means
covering all walls in one of the rooms at your home with a (possibly thick) layer
of aluminum or some other metal. Even the windows and doors of that room need to
be covered in metal, otherwise it's useless.

No electronic equipment of any sort should be brought into that room, because if
by any chance a device equipped with a wireless antenna can be used to beam
electromagnetism to the brain, then it renders the whole room pointless.

And FYI, `every wireless-capable device you have is a major suspect
<../technology/distance.rst>`.


EMF-Shielding Clothes
---------------------

A brief internet search reveals various types of "EMF shielding clothes"
available for sale, including hoodies, shirts and pants.

I'm not sure if the thickness and density of these clothes is good enough for
completely blocking electromagnetism, though. If they block, say, 95% of the
signal, then all the perpetrators have to do is crank up the intensity of their
signal. And even if the fabric slightly distorts the signals going in and out,
it might be still good enough for triangulation.

If the fabrics only introduce marginal alterations to the waveform, then it can
be fuzzily-matched with the original. Even with more drastic distortions, if the
distortion patterns are predictable (which they probably are), the mind reading
technology can be retrained again to decode your brain's waveforms in their
distorted form just as it does with their original form.


Jamming
=======

If completely blocking electromagnetism is not feasible, another idea that could
be cheaper is jamming.

Considering that we live in the age of (computer) neural networks (which exhibit
insane capabilities at pattern recognition), your jamming device cannot be a
simple-minded one that emits a static pattern, or even a combination of patterns
computed with a bunch of fixed algorithm.

I think a much more advanced form of jamming would need to be used. The jamming
patterns probably should themselves be generated by a neural network that keeps
altering its jamming patterns over time such that an outside observer can never
identify a long-term pattern.


Spoofing
========

A perhaps even better idea than jamming, is emitting myriads of signals that
more or less resemble your brain's activity. If the perpetrator receives 100s
of signals per second that look like your thoughts, good luck finding out
**which** one of them is the real one.

Such a spoofing mechanism would obviously need to be mounted on the head, and
the design should be made such that the waveforms are beamed only towards the
outside, but not towards the inside (since those are your brain's own waveforms,
your brain will react to them by activating the corresponding memory/whatever,
and you do not exactly want a deluge of random memories to be flooding your
brain all the time...).


The Solution
============

Like I said at the top, I have not performed any sufficient degree of
experimenting, nor do I have the means to do so, so I would like to call out
for people who can to make those experiments and identify or develop as many
suitable solutions as possible. Ideally ones that are cheap and easily-accessible
for everyone in the public.
